update readme (#2)
DevExpress-Examples/asp-net-mvc-grid-custom-binding-with-sorting-paging: Readme.md

[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open_in_DevExpress_Support_Center-FF7200?style=flat-square&logo=DevExpress&logoColor=white)](https://supportcenter.devexpress.com/ticket/details/E4394)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/📖_How_to_use_DevExpress_Examples-e9f6fc?style=flat-square)](https://docs.devexpress.com/GeneralInformation/403183)
<!-- default badges end -->

# Grid View for ASP.NET MVC - How to implement a simple custom binding scenario
<!-- run online -->
**[[Run Online]](https://codecentral.devexpress.com/e4394/)**
<!-- run online end -->

This example demonstrates how to implement a simple custom binding scenario for the [GridView](https://docs.devexpress.com/AspNetMvc/8966/components/grid-view) extension and handle sorting and paging operations in the corresponding Action methods.

> You can modify this approach to use with any data source object that implements the `IQueryable` interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can modify this approach to use it with any data source object that implements the `IQueryable` interface.
```

## Implementation details

> Custom data binding requires the [DevExpressEditorsBinder](https://docs.devexpress.com/AspNetMvc/DevExpress.Web.Mvc.DevExpressEditorsBinder) is used instead of the default model binder to correctly transfer values from DevExpress editors back to the corresponding data model fields. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom data binding requires that the [DevExpressEditorsBinder](https://docs.devexpress.com/AspNetMvc/DevExpress.Web.Mvc.DevExpressEditorsBinder) is used instead of the default model binder to correctly transfer values from DevExpress editors back to the corresponding data model fields. 
```

Assign `DevExpressEditorsBinder`  to the `ModelBinders.Binders.DefaultBinder` property in the **Global.asax** file to override the default model binder.

```csharp
ModelBinders.Binders.DefaultBinder = new DevExpress.Web.Mvc.DevExpressEditorsBinder();
```

### Grid partial view

> The [CustomBindingRouteValuesCollection](https://docs.devexpress.com/AspNetMvc/DevExpress.Web.Mvc.GridViewSettings.CustomBindingRouteValuesCollection) property allows you to assign particular handling Actions for four data operations - paging, sorting, grouping and filtering. In this example, the property specifies custom routing for sorting and paging operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [CustomBindingRouteValuesCollection](https://docs.devexpress.com/AspNetMvc/DevExpress.Web.Mvc.GridViewSettings.CustomBindingRouteValuesCollection) property allows you to assign particular handling Actions for four data operations - paging, sorting, grouping, and filtering. In this example, the property specifies custom routing for sorting and paging operations.
```

```razor
settings.CustomBindingRouteValuesCollection.Add(
    GridViewOperationType.Sorting,
    new { Controller = "Home", Action = "GridViewSortingAction" }
);
settings.CustomBindingRouteValuesCollection.Add(
    GridViewOperationType.Paging,
    new { Controller = "Home", Action = "GridViewPagingAction" }
);
```

> The [CallbackRouteValues](https://docs.devexpress.com/AspNetMvc/DevExpress.Web.Mvc.GridSettingsBase.CallbackRouteValues) property specifies the action to handle all other (standard) grid callbacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [CallbackRouteValues](https://docs.devexpress.com/AspNetMvc/DevExpress.Web.Mvc.GridSettingsBase.CallbackRouteValues) property specifies the action that handles all other (standard) grid callbacks.
```

```razor
settings.CallbackRouteValues = new { Controller = "Home", Action = "GridViewPartial" };
```

### Controller

> Action methods update the [GridViewModel](https://docs.devexpress.com/AspNetMvc/DevExpress.Web.Mvc.GridViewModel) object with the information of the performed operation. The [ProcessCustomBinding](https://docs.devexpress.com/AspNetMvc/DevExpress.Web.Mvc.GridViewModel.ProcessCustomBinding.overloads) method delegates binding implementation to specific model-layer methods pointed by the method's certain parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Action methods update the [GridViewModel](https://docs.devexpress.com/AspNetMvc/DevExpress.Web.Mvc.GridViewModel) object with the information from the performed operation. The [ProcessCustomBinding](https://docs.devexpress.com/AspNetMvc/DevExpress.Web.Mvc.GridViewModel.ProcessCustomBinding.overloads) method delegates the binding implementation to specific model-layer methods pointed by the method's parameters.
```

`pointed by`? Can you explain?

```csharp
public ActionResult GridViewPartial() {
    var viewModel = GridViewExtension.GetViewModel("GridView");
    if (viewModel == null)
        viewModel = CreateGridViewModel();
        return GridCustomActionCore(viewModel);
}
public ActionResult GridViewSortingAction(GridViewColumnState column, bool reset) {
    var viewModel = GridViewExtension.GetViewModel("GridView");
    viewModel.SortBy(column, reset);
    return GridCustomActionCore(viewModel);
}
public ActionResult GridViewPagingAction(GridViewPagerState pager) {
    var viewModel = GridViewExtension.GetViewModel("GridView");
    viewModel.Pager.Assign(pager);
    return GridCustomActionCore(viewModel);
}
```

### Model

> The specified delegates populate the grid view model with the required data. To bind Grid to your particular model object, modify the following code line:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The specified delegates populate the Grid View model with data. To bind the Grid to your particular model object, modify the following code line:
```

```cs
static IQueryable Model { get { return NorthwindDataProvider.GetCustomers(); } }
```

> The grid view model object is passed from the Controller to the grid's Partial View as a Model. In the Partial View, the [BindToCustomData](https://docs.devexpress.com/AspNetMvc/DevExpress.Web.Mvc.GridViewExtension.BindToCustomData(DevExpress.Web.Mvc.GridViewModel)) method binds grid to the Model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Grid View model object is passed from the Controller to the grid's Partial View as a Model. In the Partial View, the [BindToCustomData](https://docs.devexpress.com/AspNetMvc/DevExpress.Web.Mvc.GridViewExtension.BindToCustomData(DevExpress.Web.Mvc.GridViewModel)) method binds the grid to the Model.
```
